[Music]
hey how's it going guys this is Dave 2d
and this is my video on the Alienware
steam machine so if you don't know what
a steam machine is steam is an online
platform that's essentially like a
gaming library it's got tons of games
it's got achievements to unlock it's got
a social network it's got crazy sales
that people just burn money on people
love this thing and valve the company
behind it all they spend a lot of time
just kind of perfecting this user
experience so over time they've just
created something that's very enjoyable
for the end user but traditionally it's
been something that's for like the
desktop user like a PC or a Mac user or
just people on laptops they never
actually had something that was
specifically designed for the living
room until now so a couple years ago Val
thought how do we bring this experience
to the living room how do we get more
people playing in like a true
multiplayer environment with family and
friends like right in front of your face
and that's how the steam machine was
born it took a couple years to develop
but it's finally here
let's take a look the Alienware steam
machine comes in a slide-out box and
when you open it up inside we get the
steam machine itself steam controller
batteries a USB extender cable and an AC
adapter the top of the device is pretty
plain it's an 8 inch by 8 inch plastic
Square and it's about two and a half
inches thick and there's that Alienware
triangle pattern up on the top on the
bottom we have four rubber feet over
here an air intake and there's a hatch
over here that has a USB port that holds
the wireless receiver for the steam
controller and remember if you need to
you can extend the wireless receiver
with the cable in case you ice it
further away now the pricing for the
Alienware steam machine starts at $450
u.s. but the one I have here goes for
$550 so this one has a has well Intel i3
8 gigs of ram a 7200 rpm one terabyte
drive and a custom Nvidia graphics chip
which I'll get into later on now one of
the best things about steam machines in
general is their upgrade ability so just
like a regular PC you can pop it open
and then you can upgrade your storage if
you want something bigger or faster like
an SSD or you can upgrade your RAM up to
like 16 gigs and even your CPU like if
you
on two you can stick a core i7 in there
and seriously the idea of a console
system that you can easily upgrade with
off-the-shelf parts it's just awesome
like for one it extends the longevity of
the system like in the future if your
system is slowing down a little bit for
current titles you can upgrade it but
most importantly it lets you adapt your
console experience to your budget so
you'll always have good frame rates but
if you want to snap your system or a
bigger installed library of games you
can do that further down the line the AC
adapter is 130 watts it's not internal
like the ps4 but it's not too big and of
course we've got to throw in a banana
for scale and it has a blue ring light
on the plug like most of the Alienware
adapters just to let you know that it's
running the device runs pretty quiet
it's from the low to mid 30s depending
what you're doing the controller
included is the steam controller so this
thing is fully customizable it has your
standard array of buttons and it has a
directional pad on the left and a thumb
stick on the left and on the right you
have a touch pad it also has two
shoulder buttons on each side up top and
there's also these paddles on the
underside which are actually really nice
to use it runs off to double-a batteries
and it's got a nice weight to it like it
feels very substantial when you're
holding it and you can also use other
controllers on the same machine like if
you want to use the Xbox 360 controller
or any kind of PC control or peripheral
those will work too the setup is super
simple there's a power cable and the
included HDMI cable you hook it up and
you're in business it takes a couple
minutes to go through the menu to
connect to the network and to update the
machine but that's it it's running
steamos and I've been using steam on the
desktop for a long time and this full
screen version is fantastic it's a Linux
based OS and they've obviously put a lot
of thought into it if you've used steam
in the past it feels really intuitive
and you'll know where everything is
right away and the animations are fluid
stuff is nicely organized and the steam
OS already has a huge library like we're
talking 1500 games available right now
with more added daily and remember these
are steam OS games so these are games
that run specifically on a steam machine
like this that's a lot of games and it's
cool that you can play mods of these
games right if you think about it mods
were exclusive to PC or Mac gaming and
now you can play them in the living room
so that's pretty cool so the first thing
I did was change the color
the Alienware head and steam logo
because I'm all about colors and then I
played some games now when this device
launches at retail it'll come packaged
with a gaming bundle from Alienware with
games like payday brawlhalla
and handful of others but I have a
pretty solid Steam library as is so I
used those to check it out
so simple games like don't starve run
really well and I was impressed with the
controls like this is a game that was
clearly designed to be played with the
mouse but it plays really nicely using
the same controller it's pretty
different for anything I've used before
and the haptic feedback on the
controller is really unique like the
entire gaming experience is tactile you
get physical feedback for everything
that you're doing on the trackpad so if
you're moving your finger just a little
bit to walk around it'll click in this
really satisfying way now as I mentioned
before it's a fully customizable
controller like you can remap buttons
change sensitivity and reassign the role
of buttons and directional pads it's one
of the most customizable controllers
I've ever used and I like it a lot
I played game called strike suit zero
now I tried this before on my PC and I
didn't have a controller at the time so
it's kind of tough to play but this game
plays really well on the steam machine
with the controller so the controls are
good the graphics are good and the frame
rates are really smooth the graphics
chip is soldered on to the motherboard
you can't upgrade it it's custom built
by Nvidia and it has 640 cuda cores with
2 gigs of gddr5 vram so I did some
digging and this is a Maxwell chip if
it's GM 107 so it's most similar to a
Maxwell 86 cm
which is basically like a 960 m running
a slightly slower clock speed so it's a
very respectable graphics chip at this
point in time and quite frankly I'm
surprised that they were able to give
this GPU at this price point and lastly
I gave csgo has been it's so hard with
default controller settings now here's
the thing when it comes to shooters I'm
a mouse and keyboard kind of guy so I
kind of expected to be handicapped when
I was playing the shooter with the
controller but it wasn't that bad I mean
I was getting owned at first so I tried
a handful of controller setups that have
been uploaded by the community and it
definitely got easier now obviously I
still prefer Mouse but we'll see over
time you can also stream games from your
main rig to this machine in your living
room which is pretty cool now I only had
time to play games for a short time for
this video but I'm pretty impressed with
it so far and I'm going to
plug it up to my TV and it has some fun
with it over the next little while I
think the Alienware steam machine is a
device that'll kind of show its strength
even more over time I mean it's a new
genre of device right it's not a
hardcore PC it's not a hardcore gaming
console it's kind of a mix of the two so
I'll be playing with this thing over the
next month and at the end of the month
I'll be doing a more thorough review of
the whole gaming experience itself
that's basically it
oh one other thing I'm giving one away
if you want to win this thing you write
one comment down below about why you
want to win the Alienware steam machine
and I will be choosing winner on
November 30th so midnight November 30th
I'll be choosing winner and I'll be
announcing the winner on Twitter a
couple days after that and the kicker
this time is that if you if you win like
if your comment is selected and you also
follow me on Twitter you will also win a
valve steam key and what this key is is
it unlocks every single valve game past
present and future ever to be put on
Steam so if you're waiting for half-life
3 if that ever comes out you will also
win this game in the future that's the
end of this video hope you guys liked it
thumbs we liked it subs if you loved it
it's good nice I'll see you guys next
time
[Music]